Communication in Design – Infographics

http://visual.ly/history-of-infographics (01/02/14)

	The history of infographics is extremely important to how modern communication techniques have developed and improved over time. Some of the first infographics date back to “cave paintings from 30,000BC”, these depicted animals and other resources in the area, I’d hazard a guess to say that they would be used to signal danger too. This form of communication is especially important to how the human race as a whole work together as a group and achieve many amazing things. Personally, I don’t think one person can even begin to compare to what a team of people can do. So communication is extremely important to this.
	
	Jumping forward to modern history, William Playfair was one of the first people to use pie charts, bar charts, line charts, and histograms to represent the economy of England in 1786. After this the use of infographics in presentations became more popular, simply due to how effective they were at conveying information. In 1857 an English nurse used bar and pie charts to convince Queen Victoria to improve conditions in military hospitals. I think that this shows how powerful infographics can be when used in presentation of information, and I think this is not only due to the fact that some people can’t visualise information, but mainly because it’s simply the most effective way in displaying new, not before seen, information to a person. If you’re doing research on something and you already understand the topic, looking at just raw data will make sense to you, but showing a lot of numbers to someone who has never seen anything to do with what you’re presenting, they will lose interest if they don’t fully understand the data. 
	
-Ben

Here is something of interest, over 700 postcard sized wooden tablets have been found at Vindolanda in Northumbria,
dating fron the first century AD.

What is most intersting is that whilst some of them are offical in matter, others are personal.

One is a birthday invitation:
"Claudia Severa to her Lepidina greetings.
On 11 September, sister, for the day of the celebration of my birthday,
I give you a warm invitation to make sure that you come to us,
to make the day more enjoyable for me by your arrival,
if you are present (?). Give my greetings to your Cerialis.
My Aelius and my little son send him (?) their greetings.
(2nd hand) I shall expect you, sister.
Farewell, sister, my dearest soul, as I hope to prosper, and hail.
(Back, 1st hand) To Sulpicia Lepidina, wife of Cerialis, from Severa."

This one made me laugh:
"Sollemnis to Paris his brother, very many greetings.
I want you to know that I am in very good health, as I hope you are in turn, you neglectful man,
who have sent me not even one letter.
But I think that I am behaving in a more considerate fashion in writing to you ... to you, brother, ... my messmate.
Greet from me Diligens and Cogitatus and Corinthus and I ask that you send me the names ...
Farewell, dearest brother (?).
(Back, 1st hand) To Paris ... of the 3rd Cohort of Batavians, from Sollemnis ..."

I feel the tone of the language is not that dissimilar to that of facebook and twitter.

http://vindolanda.csad.ox.ac.uk/

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vindolanda_tablets

I quite like that 2000 years ago we as human beings were as keen as we are now and had a real need to commit our personal
feelings to print and to let others know how we feel even though we may be some distance apart.

- Paul

That's actually really cool. I agree that it's almost like the very first twitter! Whilst we're on a historical note;
Here's an article that timelines communication through the web, way back to 1969. It's interesting to see how much it's
progressed and how important it's become in peoples lives.

http://www2.uncp.edu/home/acurtis/NewMedia/SocialMedia/SocialMediaHistory.html
http://mashable.com/2011/01/24/the-history-of-social-media-infographic/ (This is just an infographic detailing the same info)

I was amazed at how fast the web took off. In 2005 there were 8 BILLION web pages, that's a huge number...
The very next year, 2006, there were 25 Billion web pages indexed by google that's more than doubled, in 1 year!

As a side note, here's a news article from 1995 Titled, "Why the Web Won't Be Nirvana" It's a really interesting and 
pretty funny read. It gives some perspective into the other side of society back during the birth of the web, not everyone
embraced it.

http://www.newsweek.com/clifford-stoll-why-web-wont-be-nirvana-185306

It's interesting to see alot of the things he listed as being "impossible for computers to do" Are actually
now fully in place and accepted as a regular part of life, like internet shopping, computers in school, eBooks and magazines
and government reports being uploaded online.


With the web now being so large and surpasing everyones expectations here are some good, and bad things that have
started to appear as a result of the social media boom;

http://socialmediatoday.com/karenn1617/1745751/effects-social-media-how-we-speak-and-write

I think that the article pays too much attention to "text speak" Anyone who's spent more than an hour on the internet
is fully aware of the monsoon of people just waiting to correct your grammar and pull you up if you don't speak properly.
I just think it's a common misconception that all kids speak in "text speak" because in my experience, it's the middle
aged people and people who haven't been brought up with the internet that excesively use text speak.

To put it into context, Both my parents born in the 70's, and grandparents born in the 40's, use social media and they
all use ALOT of 'text speak' whereas my younger relatives like my cousins, born in the late 80's and 90's go to lengths
to make sure they're using proper grammar and spelling. The entire reasoning behind text speak was to make texting on old
mobile phones easier back before every phone had a qwerty keyboard and you had to press the keys multiple times to type
one letter. The irony is, is that most of the kids that are apparently using text speak are too young to have even
experienced that. It's the older generation that were living and breathing the mobile phone boom.

After that little rant, here's another infographic that goes through some of the more positive aspects of social media
and what it helps us to acheive and how we use it.

http://thumbnails.visually.netdna-cdn.com/how-social-media-is-changing-the-world_51eff38e5f0eb_w587.jpg

I think some of the numbers here are pretty staggering, 89% of job recruiters have hired through Linkedin, 4 Billion
videos are watched every day on YouTube, 100,000 tweets are sent every minute. It helps to visualise the sheer scale
and power of the internet.

That's about all I've found up to now.

-Jordan

Really interesting post about the positive and negative effects of social media and how far we have came. The stats at
the end are literally insane to think. There is no hiding in the world of communication now!

I completely agree with you on the "text speak" aspect of the article and decided to look into the negative effects of 
texting a bit more. I think the use of text speak can be very dangerous especially in terms of communication. 

The amount of times that I hear people having an argument because someone has taken a text message the wrong way. You 
can't portray much meaning through a text message and that is one of the main disadvantages to texting rather than a 
phone call. 

Messages that were sent on a monthly basis exploded from 14 billion in 2000 to 188 billion in 2010. It is isane to think 
how much people text now and all of those potential miscommunicaions.

This can also be taken into emailing as well, the amount of times that I have recieved emails from clients and thought to 
myself what does he mean by that? When a quick phone call could have cleared it up rather than me sitting there thinking 
the worst. The obvious fear is that there needs to be a balance between what we use for communication and make sure that 
we do not become socially inept.

With all that being said there is obvoiusly a massive amount of possitve effects of texting and communication for example
I can send a text to my dad in Australia for free using Whats App and literally only about 5 years ago it would cost me
and arm and a leg!

http://techland.time.com/2012/08/16/we-never-talk-anymore-the-problem-with-text-messaging/ Aug. 16, 2012

-Barry

-Bethany

I have researched the effects that social media has had on communication in terms of the way we are now starting to act
through communication. I also came across the same website as Jordan for this so I then moved on to looking at how social
media started to change the way in which we communicate and how that has developed over the past few years which I 
quite interesting!

I came across this website http://www.e-guillotine.com/how-social-media-changed-the-way-we-interact-with-the-world.php

This website talks about how social media helps us to communicate with a wider range of people from all over the world
compared to before we had social media networks, where our resources were more limited. 

One advatage to this is that it means we can get the opinions of a lot more people with the click of a button.This
makes it easier for people to get their messages across to people, where as before hand you would have to speak to
someone dirct to beable to get your message out.

This website also states that there are also down sides to social networking which is we tend to group with people who have
the same opinions as us over the web, this leaves us a little bit unexposed to other peoples opinions and thoughts.

Another downside to the development of social networking is that we are starting to lose our communication skills when 
talking to people face to face and this is because we are so used to sitting silently typing out our thoughts that we
are starting to forget how to portray these in real life situations rather than interacting online. 

I also agree with this website as you can see this occuring in every day situations where people can get easily offended
or do not know how to approach a situation because they are getting less and less used to communicating face to face.




